# Quantum RCC
An extension of the RCC discovery algorithm to quantum scenarios

Causal discovery algorithms (CDAs) refer to computational techniques for inferring causal relationships between a set of variables from their statistical relationships. In recent years, researchers in the field of machine learning (ML) have developed powerful CDAs that can exploit ML tools to learn the direction of causality in various domains. Since these algorithms usually take probability distributions over classical variables as input, it is a nontrivial question how they are to be applied to probabilistic descriptions of quantum states such as density matrices. Here, we generalize a powerful classical CDA, called the [Randomized Causation Coefficient (RCC)](http://proceedings.mlr.press/v37/lopez-paz15.pdf), and apply it to several simulated quantum scenarios. In our scenarios, we consider the transmission of a quantum state between two qubits via various types of potentially noisy channels, and the aim is to learn the direction of the channel, and thus the causal direction, from the states of the qubits without explicitly performing interventions. We will show that the RCC confidently achieves this goal in simple networks (consisting of only two nodes) as well as more complex networks (having multi-nodes). 

The repository contains the codes for different stages of this project. This includes the codes for quantum simulations, optimization steps, interpretational and visualization techniques. To overview the project's motivations, look at my [primary slides](https://github.com/OmidCharrakh/Quantum_RCC/tree/main/Extra/project_slides.pdf).
